Mind and Cognition (3+0+0) 3 ECTS 6
A study of philosophical and meta-theoretical issues arising in the cognitive sciences. Readings from an interdisciplinary array covering philosophy of psychology, cognitive psychology, and artificial intelligence.
Inductive Logic (3+0+0) 3 ECTS 6
Problems of statistical inference. Varieties of inductive inference, elementary probability theory and statistics. Emphasizing on different philosophical positions on statistical inference.
Philosophical Issues in Feminism (3+0+0) 3 ECTS 6
A selection of philosophical issues that arise within feminist thinking, such as the nature of sexual equality, patriarchy, sexual harassment, oppression, and exploitation and the use of such concepts in feminist analysis of women's social position.
Philosophy of Time (3+0+0) 3 ECTS 6
Study of different philosophical problems connected with time, including the relation of time and change, the flow of time, Mc Taggart's paradox, the reality of past and present, the token-reflexive account of tense, the direction of time, the openness of the future, the topology of time, space-time and relativity, the experience of time and duration.
Issues in Ethics (3+0+0) 3 ECTS 6
An in-depth analysis of the ethical views of prominent philosophers on a major issue in ethics.
Philosophies of Enlightenment (3+0+0) 3 ECTS 6
Historical and contemporary accounts of Enlightenment values and visions. Interpretations of reason and its significance; its alleged role in the promotion of justice and in human emancipation.
Philosophy and Literature (3+0+0) 3 ECTS 6
Philosophical examination of literature with special emphasis on the logic of narrative, theories and strategies of interpretation, representation and truth in fiction, concept and function of unconscious, genesis and development of moral space and the notion of the self in the history of literature, and a comparison of poetic language to the language of philosophy.
Philosophical Paradoxes (3+0+0) 3 ECTS 6
Examination of philosophical paradoxes. Issues of self-reference. The source, resolution, and philosophical significance of paradoxes.